number 3 and be looking at verses 7 down through verse number 13
and Revelation chapter 3 tonight verses 7 through 13. The church in
Philadelphia
the sixth church that is addressed here in the book of Revelation was located in
this city, the city of Philadelphia.
It was located about 38 miles southeast of Sardis and of course that was
the subject in which we studied a couple of Sunday nights ago
there in verses 1 through 6 of chapter number 3
and the name Philadelphia, who knows what it means?
Yeah, city of brotherly love.
Not shove, if you're there it seems like it's the brother of shove, right? The
brotherly shove.
But it's the brotherly love and it's the same
as our Philadelphia up in Pennsylvania just a few hours from here
and that's what the name means. The city was intended to play an important role
or part
in spreading the Greek language culture in manners throughout
Asia Minor, modern-day Turkey where this church was located.
We mentioned back several weeks ago in chapter number 2 when we looked in the
church in Smyrna
we said this of the church in Smyrna that it was known as the
poor rich church. Why did we say that? Well in verse number 9 of Revelation 2
the Bible says I know thy works in tribulation and poverty
thy poverty but thou art rich and so we said that the church in Smyrna was known
as the poor
rich church. From many's perspective they had great poverty, God mentions that in
the letter
but they were rich and I mentioned this when we studied through that portion of
scripture
just to understand that we are rich in Christ. Think about the memory verse for
this month, 2nd Corinthians 8 and verse 9.
He left the throne room of heaven, right? He became poor
so that we might be rich and what a blessing to understand what we have in
Christ. You know that you have in Christ what money cannot buy.
Amen? And what a blessing.
And we come to this church in Philadelphia in Revelation chapter 3
and verses 7 through 13
and we could refer to this church as being the weak
strong church and why would we say that? Well notice in verse 7 it says unto the
angel of the church in Philadelphia write
these things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David
he that openeth and no man shutteth and shutteth and no man openeth. Verse 8, I know thy
works
behold I have set before thee an open door and no man can shut it. Notice this
for thou hast a little strength and has kept my word and has not denied
my name. It would seem and as you study various portions of
history that the church was not an extremely large
church in number but I'm thankful that though they might have little strength
physically or numerically
that they had the power of God resting upon them as you study through this
portion of scripture
you find that this church like the church in Smyrna in fact the only two
churches of the seven
that are addressed here in Revelation we find that there are no corrections that
are given
to the church in Philadelphia and what a blessing to think about that. We
mentioned as we've studied through these seven churches at this point number six
but as we've studied on the churches that are being addressed in Revelations
two and three
and we find that in these two chapters these churches that are addressed that
are local churches
but we find that the Lord Jesus Christ who is the head of the church is writing
to them
and really if we could call it an evaluation, an examination
and we've tried to say this and to be mindful of this truth throughout
each of the studies here on Sunday nights of these churches they
each end with the statement he that hath an ear
let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches plural and the reality is that we need to have
ears to hear and we need to apply truth in our lives
and we need to understand this evening that just as these local churches were
being evaluated by
the Lord Jesus Christ who is the head of the church that the Lord
it's still his church and he evaluates and by the way his evaluation is
correct and there are times in which we looked at some of these and you look at
Ephesus and say no no we've not left our first love no no
Jesus Christ said you left your first love
so guess what? It's true. They left their first love.
His evaluation is true. In fact next week
actually we have a missionary next week but in two weeks when we look at the church
of the Laodiceans as it's called in verse number 14
though they had a perspective of their
particular situation they
they were wrong on their perspective. They said
but then God said. We'll look at that in a couple of weeks and so as we look at this
church in Philadelphia there's some things that we learned that are
important for us to
to consider as we look at this local church but then obviously looking at our
own lives and
yes we ought to examine and evaluate ourselves personally individually then
corporately as a church
and understand that the Lord Jesus Christ is evaluating his church.
I wanna have in my life personally and in our church corporately
I want God's favor upon our lives.
Don't you want God's favor?
In my life personally and in our church corporately
I want God's blessing. I want God's favor.
I wanna be in a place where God is
pleased with us. That God is pleased to
add people, to bring people, to know that we will be faithful to
preach his word and to to carry the truth of the gospel. I want to be a
church that pleases the Lord.
We find that here the church in Philadelphia if you're taking notes
number one Christ
reminds them. Christ reminds them. Don't you notice a few things in verses seven and
eight that the Lord reminds this church of and by the way
there are times in which we need to be reminded. We're prone to forget.
It's not maybe that we've forgotten entirely but we just need to be reminded
of something brought to the forefront of our attention.
In fact Peter says that he was gonna stir up the people by putting them in
remembrance. He says
though you know these things I'm gonna stir you up by putting you in
remembrance of these things
and so the Lord reminds the church really of five things in these first
couple of verses, verse seven and eight. Number one he reminds them, notice, these
things saith he
that is holy. He that is holy.
You know what God reminds the church in Philadelphia? He reminds them that he's holy.
Can I tell you this evening we need to be reminded that our God is holy.
He's holy. I was thanking the Lord this morning. You know the psalmist talks about that
we're to give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.
I was thanking God this morning. I was sitting right there early this morning before the
service. I was thanking God that he's holy.
He says to his people not only in the Old Testament but again in the New Testament
that we're to be holy.
Why? Because he is holy. I think about Isaiah when he sees the Lord
high holy and lifted up and he sees in Isaiah chapter number six
and the angels are there, holy, holy, holy. In just a few
verses of scripture we get into the fourth chapter. You get into the scene room of
heaven and you see holy,
holy, holy. You know as a church we need to be reminded that our God is holy.
He's holy. He's not becoming holy, he is holy.
We find this evening that he first reminds them that he's holy, second he
reminds them,
notice it says into the angel of the church in Philadelphia, right, these
things saith he that is
holy and that is true. Jesus Christ said
I am the way, the truth, and the life. He has a name, you read Revelation 19, truth,
and
you begin to think about the fact that he is true. Let God be true and let
every man be a liar, right? Our God cannot lie. Titus chapter number one
talking about the hope of eternal life that God who cannot lie has promised to
us. He is true.
He is truth. This evening we must be reminded as the church in Philadelphia
is reminded that our God is true. Listen, we have so many things that are
bombarding us this evening in the world in which we live. Someone, and not to
point it out in being a negative way, but someone asked a question about how
things are in a certain part and they said that AI was providing an answer. How
many of you have gone on Google recently and the first answers are AI generated?
It's what's happening, right? Do you know that that's not always true? Do you know
how the algorithms work? I don't know, I'm not real deep into it, but algorithms on
Google searches, etc. work different than what you might think. Have you ever heard
somebody say, well I saw it on the Internet? You know, I'm amazed. You know it
used to be that if you showed somebody a picture that was evidence of something
that truly happened, right? It's not true anymore. You know how easy it is to
manipulate pictures today? They advertise, they market phones and one of the points
of marketing the phone is on the ability to edit a photo immediately. You can see
a parent throwing a child up in the air and it's only, you know, 14, 18 inches
away and then all of a sudden the picture shows the kid like five feet in the air.
No, no, no, no. That's not true. It didn't happen. But our God is true. Everything that
you read in this Bible.
is true. God has given us a pure, true record and He is truth. You remember Pilate? What
is truth? Truth was standing before him and unfortunately he didn't stick around long
enough to get an answer to the question that he posed. He says to the church, I'm holy,
I'm true. Notice, he reminds them that he is king. He says, he that hath the key of
David. You know, think about the Davidic covenant. You begin to think about the role that Christ
will play as king of kings, lord of lords during the millennial reign. He is the rightful
heir to the throne and he will rule and reign. He is king. He then says this in verse number
7. Notice, it says, he that openeth and no man shutteth and shutteth and no man openeth.
The authority that our God has. You know, he has all authority. He has all power and
all authority. Begin to think about that this evening in these reminders. There's one more
that we'll look at in verse number 8. We begin to think about the authority that our God
has. He says that he openeth and no man shutteth and he shutteth and no man openeth. What a
great way to describe the authority that he has. We come to verse number 8. He says,
I know thy works. Isn't that a phrase that we've read to each of these churches? It reminds
us of the fifth truth that we find in these couple of verses of scripture. What does Christ
remind them of? It reminds them that he's omniscient. I know thy works. You know, he
knows everything about you. He knows everything about me. He knows everything about us. He
knows why we do the things that we do. He knows the motives and all of it. He knows
your heart. He knows your thoughts. He's omniscient. We begin to think about these truths that
are given to us in verse 7 and 8 of what Christ reminds this church of that he's holy and
true and that he's king and that he has all authority and that he's omniscient. Listen,
this ought to cause us to rejoice. Why? Because that's my savior. That's the head of the church.
When he is all of these things, then he reminds his people, we're not serving some man. We're
not serving some dead little G-O-D. No, we're serving the living God who is holy and true
and he has all power and authority. He is king and he is omniscient. It ought to cause
us to rejoice because we know who he is. And here, as he begins addressing the church in
Philadelphia, he reminds them of these truths. Listen, there are times in which we go through
life and we face a difficulty. We face some uncertainty and we may be led to think that
God doesn't understand or that God doesn't know or that God doesn't… No, he is very
aware of what we're dealing with. He has a purpose and he has a plan and we trust him
and we serve him and we find that it's his church. He is the head of the church. He reminds
them. Number two, I would say this tonight in verse number eight, Christ commends them.
He commends them. Notice immediately in verse number eight, he commends them for their work.
He says, I know thy works. They were serving the Lord. They were involved in doing what
God had called them to do. They were faithful. We'll look at that in just a moment, but I
want you to notice this in verse number eight. He says, I know thy works. Behold, notice
I have set before thee an open door and no man can shut it. I want you to think about
that just for a moment. It's a little bit different than what he said in verse seven.
In speaking of the authority in verse seven, he says, he that openeth and no man shutteth
and shutteth and no man openeth. And that's a general truth, a statement that is given.
But in verse number eight, while speaking to this church in Philadelphia, he says, I
have set before thee an open door and no man can shut it. You think about an open door.
You think about the picture Paul talks about that there's an open door, but there are many
adversaries, right? But you begin to think about this open door. If I could use a phrase
this evening to help us kind of maybe understand it, it's an opportunity. The open door is
an opportunity. And the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who reminds them of who he is and
he reveals all this truth and exposes them to then this truth as he commends them, that
I've given to you an opportunity. Can I say to you this evening that God has given to
his church an opportunity. Can I tell you this evening that we don't serve the Lord,
we don't do what we do because we have a United States Constitution or a Bill of Rights or
– no, no, we do what we do because we have a Bible and we serve the Lord that's omnipotent,
that has given to us an open door. Listen, I'm thankful for the freedoms and the liberties
and the rights that we have in America, but can I tell you that if those rights are removed,
if those rights do not exist, the truth of this book stands. There are believers, there
are folks on that missions map that we send dollars to and we pray for that are in places
around the world that do not have the freedoms and liberties that we do. Yet God says I have
given you an opportunity. I've opened a door that no man can shut. You know what's interesting
about opportunities? They don't last forever. What's interesting about opportunities? Many
times it's easier to see them on the other side after we've missed them. You say, man,
I missed an opportunity. God's given to us as a local church, Fellowship Baptist Church,
he's given to us an opportunity, an open door, an opportunity to reach a region. I've
often said as people have asked me, and in fact I was sharing with somebody this afternoon
after the service about some ministry things in Northern Virginia and folks that have never
ministered here don't fully comprehend what this region is like, but I've often said this,
you know, the reality is that God has put the world in our backyard. Literally. We have
the opportunity to reach people in this region of the world that can go back to whatever
country it is and go as missionaries and they know languages and cultures and it's absolutely
amazing the opportunities that God has given to us. We better seize the opportunities.
We better take advantage of the time that God has given to us and Christ commends them
for their works and he reminds them that he's opened a door for them. He has given to them
an opportunity. I find that he also commends them for their faithfulness and for their
obedience. Notice it says in verse number 8, the end of the verse,
For thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.
Again in verse number 10, this is because thou hast kept the word of my patience. Begin
to think about the faithfulness and the obedience of this church and it is referenced that thou
hast kept my word. Listen, God requires in us to be faithful. To be faithful.
To be obedient. Trust and obey. We sing the song. And I'm thankful this evening, moreover
it's required in Stuart's that a man be found faithful. God has entrusted to us and then
he expects of us faithfulness. How many of you this evening, don't raise your hand, but
how many of you this evening are thankful that God is faithful? God is faithful. Amen?
And I'm thankful this evening that his faithfulness doesn't vary based on my faithfulness. He's
faithful. But the reality is that we ought to desire to be faithful. To be faithful.
Great is thy faithfulness. We sing the song. It's a favorite of many. Faithful is he that
calleth you who also will do it. 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 24. God is faithful. And then
he expects of us that we too would be faithful. Notice he commends them for their testimony.
It says at the end of verse number 8, And hast not denied my name. You know, our testimony
matters. Our testimony matters. There are times in which we're pressed. There are times
in which we're faced with difficulties and maybe we're surrounded by a number. We feel
like we're in the minority and I mean maybe like all alone. Maybe we sometimes have the
Elijah syndrome. Everyone else has bowed but not me and God of course says no, no, no Elijah
you're not accurate on that. But there are times when we feel that way. But here he says
thou hast not denied my name. They had a good testimony. This evening our testimony matters.
It really does. A good name is rather to be chosen. Right? Great riches. Think about the
testimony this evening. How's our testimony? You know the testimony of a church? The testimony
of individuals that are within the church? I don't ever want to be in a position where
someone's like, oh you go to that church? But you know there have been times that I've heard
that kind of statement. Why? Because all of a sudden that church has a bad testimony in
a community. I'd have read a church.
church in another state that's looking for a pastor. In fact, there are churches all
over looking for pastors. It's a sad, sad day in our churches. It really is all over
the place. I hear about them all the time. A church in another state, the person that
was telling me about it said, you know, it's going to be a really difficult thing. And
I said, you know, explain that to me. What do you mean it's going to be a difficult thing?
Well, the pastor's in jail for murder. And so the church has a really bad testimony.
And I thought, I guess it does. Like, you got to be kidding me. And they asked me,
what would you do? I have no idea. Like, close it down, change the name, do something, right?
Because the testimony of that church in that community is tarnished. It's tarnished. He
says, thou hast kept, thou hast not, excuse me, denied my name. Thou hast kept my word
and hast not denied my name. And number three, Christ comforts them. In verses 9-12, we find
not only these reminders and the way that Christ commends them, but now He comforts
them. By the way, aren't you thankful that our God is the God of all comfort? He comforted
us in all of our tribulation. We read that. The Holy Spirit, one of the names ascribed
to the Holy Spirit is Comforter. And we find that Christ begins to comfort them. Notice
in verse number 9, behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they
are Jews and are not, but do lie. Behold, I will make them to come and worship before
thy feet and to know that I have loved thee. Aren't you thankful that God loves us? I'm
thankful for the security, for the comfort that He gives. We could say in verse number
9 that victory is certain. Listen, there were some difficulties that they were dealing with,
with this group of people that is mentioned, and we find that God is going to work on the
behalf. He's going to deal with it, and He says that they're going to know that I have
loved thee. Victory is certain. Listen, we're on the winning side. Heaven, I preached about
heaven this morning. I mean, we're going to heaven. We are victorious. We are more than
conquerors through Christ. But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our
Lord Jesus Christ, and this evening we are on the winning side. Victory is certain. We
find that in verse number 10 there's this comfort of deliverance in the hour of temptation.
Listen, verse 10, because thou has kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee
from the hour of temptation which shall come upon all the world to try them that dwell
upon the earth. By the way, a great truth with regard to dealing with the pre-tribulational
rapture, the fact that you look at what's going to happen as you enter into chapter
6 and all of the situation with the tribulation and so on and so forth, and we find that He
speaks about deliverance from what? From the hour of temptation which shall come upon
all the world for what purpose? To try them that dwell upon the earth. We begin to think
about the deliverance. We begin to read in 1 and 2 Thessalonians and comparing Scripture
with Scripture, and we'll get to it in greater detail as we get into chapter 4 and then again
into chapter number 6. We begin to look at all of these wonderful truths and look at
the promises that God has given to us, this truth of deliverance. The rewards that are
mentioned in verse number 11, behold I come quickly, hold that fast which thou hast that
no man take thy crown. We find that the Scriptures teach us about rewards. In fact, we read of
them in the fourth chapter and how we will take and we will cast those crowns before
the throne and what we will say, thou art worthy O Lord. We find that the truth of eternity
is at stake or in clear view in verse number 12, him that overcometh will I make a pillar
in the temple of my God and he shall go no more out and I will write upon him the name
of my God and the name of the city of my God which is New Jerusalem which cometh down out
of heaven from my God and I will write upon him my new name. He talks about what he's
going to do for them, these comforts that God is giving to these individual believers
that make up this church in Philadelphia. This evening, I'm thankful for the promises
that God has given to us and the promises bring comfort. The revelation that God has
given to us enables us to be comforted. We think about what he says to the church in
Smyrna in chapter 2 in verse number 10, be thou faithful unto death and I will give thee
a crown of life. I think about Paul as he writes in 2 Timothy chapter 4 knowing that
his day of departure is at hand but he recognizes that there's a crown of righteousness that
the Lord, the faithful judge is going to give him but not only him, he says all of those
that love is appearing and these are comforting truths. We find that a church that's here
in Philadelphia, this church is given these reminders and then it's commended and then
God gives them these words of comfort. By the way, I'm thankful for what we read at
the end of the passage of scripture in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and comfort one another with these
words. You know God's words bring comfort. They really do. God brings comfort. He is
the comforter. We find that his word brings comfort. Then I want you to notice finally
this evening number 4, Christ counsels them. He counsels them. We think about counsel.
Counsel is good. I mentioned this last week or two weeks ago when we looked at, I don't
remember did I preach it last week or the week before, I guess it was two weeks ago
and we noted the counsel there for the church in Sardis and by the way it was harsh counsel
that was given but I said this that counsel is given and counsel is productive and it's
profitable so long as we take heed to it. There have been plenty of times in your life
and I know plenty of times in my life that I've given counsel to someone and they let
it go in one ear and out the other and there are times that I'm guilty of doing the same
thing when counsel is given. But God here gives counsel to the church and I believe
that it's important for us also to note this counsel and to take heed to the counsel. First
we find that he counsels them with regard to his return. In verse number 11 he says,
behold I come quickly. You know that ought to give us some instruction. It ought to give
us some consideration this evening with regard to how we live our lives, what we're doing
and how we're redeeming the time that God has given to us. Of course no man knoweth
the hour. We don't know when he's going to return but we find that he says to this church,
I come quickly and we find that as we read the end of the book of Revelation that he
says he's going to come quickly and we can look and we understand that 2 Peter says that
the scoffers have said where is the time of his appearing? We find that a day is a
thousand years, a thousand years is a day. God's right on time and he's going to come
back. I don't know when but we know that he is. The counsel that he gives to this church
is to expect his return. And by the way I believe that as you read the book of Acts
I believe that so much happened in the first century through the people of God as the gospel
went forth because they lived expecting his return. It was on their mind. Why? Well because
the disciples stood there and watched him ascend up into heaven and heard that this
same Jesus shall so come in like manner. Go get busy doing what he told you to do and
here this evening we too have the reminder that Christ is coming back. We find that
also in verse number 11 we have the responsibility, the counsel is for them to remain steadfast.
Hold that fast which thou hast. To remain steadfast. We find that there are many that
change, many that are trying to find something new, something different, becoming more relevant
and so on and so forth but the reality is that God says to this church hold that fast
which thou hast. Sometimes a church can try to be so relevant to its community that it
becomes irrelevant to God. Read in the Old Testament, Ichabod. What's it mean? The glory
of the Lord hath departed. We find this evening that he says hold that fast which thou hast.
You know we've been given truth. We find that Paul gives to Timothy, 2 Timothy 2 and verse
number 2 this charge to commit to teach faithful men to teach them what? The things that thou
hast heard of me among many witnesses the same. Commit thou to faithful men who shall
be able to teach others also. We find that we read in the book of Jude just one chapter
in just a really a short letter but we find that the Bible says that it was needful in
verse number 3 that Jude says it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that
you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints.
I'm so thankful for the purity of
doctrine. I'm thankful for the truth that we have." And he tells the church to remain
steadfast, to hold that fast which thou hast. I'm not looking for any new revelation.
Canon of Scripture is closed. Amen? We interpret everything through this book. We take heed
to this book. We hold fast to what God has given to us and we faithfully preach. What
did Paul tell Timothy in 2 Timothy 4? Preach the word. The time is going to come when men
will not endure sound doctrine, he goes on to say in the same text of Scripture, but
it did not change the charge. The charge is given and then the reality of the people not
enduring it is given as well, but the charge remains. Remain steadfast. Therefore, my beloved
brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Why? For
as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. 1 Corinthians chapter
15 and verse number 58 I believe it is. And what a blessing to think about the charge
that's been given to us. This counsel. Expect his return. Remain steadfast and then we find
in verse number 13 this truth that's given to every church that's written to in the book
of Revelation. Listen and take heed. The believers in Philadelphia were doing well. They're doing
well. They're not corrected at all. They're reminded of some things. They're commended.
They're comforted. They're counseled. And we find that the church in Philadelphia, they're
doing well, but they too could learn and should learn from the letters written to the
other churches. Much can change in just one generation. Much can change in just one generation.
And it's important for a church that's doing what they're supposed to do to have that listen
and take heed and to be sure that we're going to protect and seek to please and honor our
Lord so that we don't get out of balance one way or the other. And though the church was
doing well, they could not relax. They couldn't just say, you know, we can kind of coast now.
Because we weren't really corrected for anything and so we can just kind of lay back and take
it easy. No. No. They had to hear. I'm thankful that God's given to us counsel, warnings,
instructions. This evening the church in Philadelphia is a good church. This evening the church
is reminded of some things. I hope that we would take heed, that we too would be reminded
of what God, the Lord Jesus Christ, the head of the church, says to this church about who
he is, his person. That we'd be reminded that we serve God of the universe. The one who
is holy, the one that is true, the one who has all power, that knows all things, he is
king. That's the head of the church. And I'm so thankful for that. This evening he's called
us to remain faithful. He's called us to do his work, to hold fast, to maintain a testimony
that's pleasing and honoring to him. He'll comfort us in a time of our difficulty. He
reminds us of eternity. He reminds us of victory. This evening those are good reminders for
us. Oh, that we would have that desire to be a church that has God's favor, that God's
hand of blessing is upon us corporately. It only happens if individually we have God's
hand upon us. Brother Jeff mentioned the verse this morning, talking about a recap from last
week, a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. I went last week to the book of Joshua
in the seventh chapter. There was sin in the camp. It was really just one man, Achan. Because
of sin in the camp, God's hand of blessing was being pulled back. What did God say? Unless
you deal with it, I'm not going to fight for you anymore. You've got to deal with it.
So Joshua made the right choice. He followed the leadership of God. And they dealt with
Achan the troubler of Israel. And then God's hand of favor and blessing was upon them again.
Oh, that we would live our lives in such a way that God would be pleased, that God's
favor would be upon us. Let's pray. Father, we love you.